## Ret Hunter Guide
## Table of Contents
## [Introduction](#introduction)

## [Hpal/War](#war-pala-910)

## [Disc/Sub](#discsub-810)

## [Spriest/Rogue](#spriestrogue-810)

## [Destro/Rsham](#destrorsham-710)

## [Destro/Ele](#destroele-810)

## [Preg/DK](#pregdk-910)

## [Preg/Enhance](#pregenhance-810)

## [Disc/Hunter](#dischunter-8510)

## [Disc/Mage](#discmage-610)

## [Hpal/Lock](#hpallock-8510)

## [Hpal/Ele](#hpalele-810)

## [Disc/Ret](#discret-910)

## [Prot/Rsham](#protrsham-8510)

## [Disc/Feral](#discferal-710)

## [Mage/Rogue](#magerogue-6510)

## [Mirror](#mirror-1)

# Introduction
This guide is mainly focused on the 2h ret variant of this comp. This has multiple reasons. Firstly, that is what I have played the most over the years. Secondly, it’s more complex than the preg hunt alternative, hence needs more of an explanation tactic wise. Thirdly, this is where I tend to get the most example games of. However, in the end the 2h ret and preg tactical approach is so congruent that I decided to add a small section of text below each tactical discussion for the playstyle when playing with a preg paladin if it actually majorly differs.
Ret Hunt is in my opinion the comp with the greatest potential for a hunter to succeed in 2vs2 arena. As with many double DPS comps, this potential is hard to put into action as you often need to play keystroke perfect to win certain teams/matchups as this comp, it is often less forgiving than healer/DPS comps. As shortly laid out in the 2vs2 comp section of this server, the strengths of this comp lie within its many instant CC abilities, the strong defensive roster and the nutty burst that comes with the CD alignment of Judgement and Aimed/Chimera Shot. I am not saying you should win every comp you face but you surely do have the potential to do so. This is different from playing a comp like disc hunter for example which should lose to war pala (yes, sad, I know). Similar to the disc hunt guide, I will give a little grading at the beginning of each comp discussion. Also, just to clarify I now want to quickly point out what the main difference between 2h ret and preg are. 2h ret mainly wears a 2h weapon and is able to dish out quick bursty attacks, the classic. Preg pala spec originates from the realisation that you are often simply unable to even consistently use all of your damage CDs, namely Crusader Strike and Divine Storm, as you are busy supporting your team and you run short on globals. Hence, preg spec was born which cuts the aforementioned two physical DPS spells and which rather focuses on supporting the team. Meaning together with a few other changes in the spec you are now solely wearing a 1h weapon to maximise your Art of War procs (instant Flash of Light) and use the Seal of Vengeance, a seal that does the most damage overall for a ret paladin but takes a while to get going as you need to build it up to 5 stacks. The playstyle of the preg paladin is built around the idea that you are constantly able to hit something to generate a lot of stacks and procs and slowly wear the enemy down, granting your team a lot of defensive strength due to the talent points in the prot tree. A neat bonus is that Judgement doesn’t scale with the weapon of the paladin, hence it still hits incredibly hard. Overall preg paladins in comparison to 2h ret paladins will allow your team to live longer, simplify strategies and are often on par with the damage output of a ret paladin. The weak side is the lack of switching capabilities. You only really have Judgement as a really offensive ability that deals proper damage especially to plate wearers and usually need to get the SoV stacks to 5 before you can really feel the pressure of the spec. Secondly, it lacks burst, especially against casters which are weak against physical attacks like the ones of a 2h ret with Divine Storm and Crusader Strike. Also, as mentioned, it is often crystal clear for the enemy what you will be doing when playing with a preg paladin, with a 2h ret you are more volatile but also more unpredictable. I tend to play with a ravager pet when playing with a 2h ret paladin as it suits the rather quick paced matches and is an additional bonus against all caster teams with its interrupting stun on a 40 second CD. Also, the Bullheaded ability is fantastic against priest teams or any other team that likes to throw CC on your pet. With a preg paladin I rather play with a Crab to make sure to have a long lasting pet as the games tend to last a bit longer, especially against DK and warrior teams.
# Hpal/War 9/10
As with the disc hunter guide, I want to start with the most cancerous and soul crushing of them all: Warrior Paladin ❤️ There are two major tactical approaches to this. You either win by continuously setting up a go on the paladin or you wear down the warrior with Seal of Vengeance (SoV) stacks. The former is a fair bit more complicated and requires voice communication with your paladin at best, the latter is a lot more straightforward yet also really predictable. Also, with the latter strategy you are highly reliant on your paladin generating enough procs to keep your team topped, not to mention that these heals are significantly less compared to those of a preg paladin. It can lead to success if you are a bit lucky but I prefer the setups on the hpal to keep things interesting and have more influence of the outcome of the matchup.
What their plan is all about: War pala is the most efficient when putting out as much DPS as possible, that means Rend on multiple targets, constantly switching to force Sacred Shield swaps by your ret. The best target for them is actually your pet. It has insane value for your team if your pet stays alive as ROS is an absolutely insane CD to have for your team, not to mention the extra freedom and support. Besides that warriors will often pool their charges and then use them both at the same time together with a freedom on you, the hunter. Charge first, get Rend and MS going, Disengage, Intercept, your paladin freedoms you on the Intercept stun and the warriors gets freedom from his paladin at the same time, forcing you to stay in melee range with him as you simply can’t get away from him anymore without stuns on the warrior. Try to counter that with a CD every time if that happens. Can be ROS or a sacrifice from your paladin for example. 
### The pala setup strat: 
The idea is rather simple, you trap the warrior while stunning the paladin followed by a silence. Do that a few times and the paladin will be dead. Preferably you use the Repentance of your paladin to set the go up, allowing you to trap the warrior and then applying your Hunter’s Mark and Serpent Sting prior to the HOJ. If the warrior trinkets he will most likely be able to peel the go on his paladin with stuns on the hunter, followed by a Disarm. Try to prevent that by standing in the death zone of the warrior after he has been trapped. The death zone lies in between the 5y range that melee attacks have and the minimum range of 8y to be able to use charges. If you stay within these perimeters the warrior can’t instantly CC you after using his trinket.  Be careful when using scatter on the warrior as it’s highly troublesome if he gets the Charge from a range greater than your Scatter Shot. The warrior will often trinket the first trap on him while his paladin is still in a full Repentance to peel his paladin. Now still going on the paladin with the warrior being free is extremely risky as your damage will collapse due to charge stuns and he might develop a lot of pressure right away as both of you will have your attention on his paladin. Do not be tempted to now use HOJ on the warrior and to go on him. You will never ever kill him in that single HOJ and at best force a Shield Block or a Divine Sacrifice afterwards. What you need are their trinkets and immunity spells, though. What worked for us so far is to use the HOJ on the warrior but to do so solely for CC and then go on the paladin with at first silence and then pet stun. This, together with previously applied Hunter’s Mark and Serpent Sting, will still be a massive amount of pressure for your team while the warrior can’t do anything. Especially when using the wings of your ret paladin you can easily force bubble and the warrior’s trinket in one go which is fantastic news cause you normally only force a trinket or a bubble but rarely two things at once and you won’t need wings later on to score a kill if you set it up properly. I like to actually pop my first Deterrence as soon as the trap landed on the warrior just to make sure he can’t instantly trinket and stun me.
As soon as you forced a CD by them, you should focus on surviving till the next setup. There is no point really to actively pressure the warrior as you are not interested in killing him. Just relax, use your defensives early and one at a time and do another setup asap. You don’t want to dot the warrior anyways as it would hinder you from landing future CC on him. Now, the careful reader might have spotted the weakness of this approach already. That being the CD of Repentance. With the aforementioned strategy you can only really do a setup every minute. So the next go the paladin would use his trinket to dispel the warrior and the warrior would peel us off and the go after the warrior would have his trinket back, also the pala would still have his wall or HOP or bubble 2 minutes after the first go. That means you need to do a semi scuffed go with only HOJ on the pala prior to Repentance coming off CD to hopefully still force his trinket. 40 seconds after that you will have both trinkets and the bubble forced, Repentance and HOJ ready. If you can, use your Readiness here to either kill him or force him to use his trinket. If the paladin has no immunities available, the warrior no trinket and you have wings, you can also kill him through his trinket with wings by using silence on top of the HOJ of your ret paladin to be able to kill him. This strategy requires spot on communication with your paladin as every go that you fuck up you are set behind a whole minute or even more as they will regain trinkets and immunities. In between a go we mostly just camp at a pillar or, if the warrior goes me, have me kite him in circles open field, making use of my dodge rating, assuring that my pet isn’t close to get cleaved. Even a 2h ret’s healing via just casting flash and keeping Sacred Shield up is massive if he switches to a 1h + shield.
### The SoV strat: 
This one is rather easy to pull off. You sit on the warrior all game and slowly oom the paladin. Your main goal is to survive while both of you keep your major damage abilities on CD and maximise your globals. I like to play this completely at a pillar with all AOE traps placed and then continuously kiting the warrior behind the pillar. Due to the Frost Trap he can’t ever move outside of freedoms, coming after us behind the pillar forces his paladin to use Holy Shock more which depletes his mana even faster and charging behind a pillar hinders him from getting freedom once we use our paladin’s freedom on the Intercept stun. You are only ever really in danger when the warrior has freedom, allowing him to easily cleave 3 targets as you are all stacked. Again, you play to survive while pressuring yourself so using HOJ on the warrior during the freedom is the best you can do, although simply stunning him during one of his charges is also really nice. Due to the SoV stacks it’s a lot easier to keep your Hunter’s Mark up and you should do just that as much as possible, covering the Judgement of Light debuff of your ret paladin. Don’t focus on landing CC on the paladin too much, a well placed Repentance is often enough to force CDs. 
Special remarks for playing with a preg paladin: You follow the SoV strat with the addition that you now probably have access to the crab pet. Try to save your Intervene for yourself in most cases when the warrior charges you. Every GCD you intervene while you are stunned is absolutely golden.

{% include youtube.html id="I4Z2kQCq2VQ" %}
{% include youtube.html id="rDyf_HsRy5I" %}
{% include youtube.html id="_n8QS_1MV68" %}
{% include youtube.html id="AufhonMm1ts" %}
{% include youtube.html id="TLoEnMPdJbY" %}
{% include youtube.html id="GoyjqqVm3Cc" %}
{% include youtube.html id="13rkSLKEQvE" %}
{% include youtube.html id="jfpqOfcjc5k" %} 

# Disc/Sub: 8/10
A comp that is only really extremely dangerous to you at the beginning of the game when they have possibly two evasions, causing your Judgements (no mana) and Aimed Shots (no MS effect) to often miss, granting the priest opportunity to dispel offensively. Hence you want to play it slow in the beginning as much as possible. You run in, get combat via Feign Death and then start poking the priest to stay in combat. Be careful about your pet although you shouldn’t have to worry too much about sending it behind the pillar as you can always use Bullheaded to get out of any stun the rogue might throw on it. Same with fears by the priest. Some teams like to open on the hunter pet and kill it in the opener, so be quick on your feet to use Bullheaded instantly on the first Cheap Shot on it, don’t wait for kidney first and instantly use Cower to wall your pet. A neat extra is that Bullheaded also grants a 20% damage reduction to the pet for 12 seconds after being used. Stay infight and pressure the priest, laying traps around the pillar at which he is kiting might not be the best idea as he can just stall for some time while his rogue dismantles the traps from stealth. At some point the rogue will open on your team, most likely with a Cheap Shot on the hunter into a Gouge while the hunter is getting cleaned and the priest pushes on the ret paladin, forcing first CC from your team going out to stop this from happening. If the priest lands the fear on the paladin and the hunter isn’t completely safe by himself, your ret should use trinket/bubble to support his hunter. Especially when they still have some defensive CDs left in the tank, it might be really difficult to recover once you or your ret partner are fairly low HP. The regular approach by many ret hunters is to wait for the kidney to land to use freedom and break the stun but by that time the hunter is fully cleaned in the gouge and doted up by the priest. It is much better to freedom the Cheap Shot of the opener instantly, scatter the rogue and get immediate distance on him. This way you can now easily CC the priest and setup on the rogue, basically preventing any pressure from them going out. Even if the rogue does trinket to possibly Gouge the hunter (you are not not stunned anymore so 1/3 of the time it gets dodged/parried), the enemy team will still have less time overall to set up on you. The hunter can then trinket the first kidney and pressure the rogue instantly. You want to bring them into a defensive position asap where they are running around the pillar, meaning you can’t ever really sit a full kidney if the priest is free to offensively dispel or the rogue has dance. Some teams like to basically pop all CDs in the opener to brute force a kill either on the hunter or the ret, getting a Freezing Trap on the priest is basically neglectable at that point, rather focus on kiting and not dropping too low, using Frost Trap if needed to kite fiend if needed as well. Deterrence is best used to avoid the re appliance of Wound Poison and to deflect stuff like Gouge/fear/Dismantle. Use ROS on dance as always and support your ret paladin via your whole peel arsenal to get the rogue off him if they do happen to go on him. Many rogues like to never kidney the ret as the ret would just use freedom on himself. Hence, don’t be afraid to give him your freedom after the initial Cheap Shot. Communicate with your ret if he has to bubble soon, so you are ready to spam interrupts on the priest casting MD. As soon as they go back you should mostly play with Frost Trap around their pillar, you and your ret keeping Judgement/Aimed Shot/Chimera Shot on CD and slowly killing them. Don’t become impatient. A single Gouge landed by the rogue on either you or your ret paladin without having to use step first, might mean disaster for your team. As so often, Deterrence is best used offensively or pre-emptively defensively to avoid a Gouge or fear. 

# Spriest/Rogue: 8/10
Many teams struggle with this comp due to its all deciding opener. Once the first blows have been dealt, the match is usually decided within the first 10-15 seconds. This is much easier to face as 2h ret than as preg as you will usually play with a ravager pet when playing with a 2h ret which is highly effective against this comp. Your main target will most likely be the SP as the rogue has proven to be too slippery and your CC insufficient for the SP. Go in, get combat, send your pet in first and far. Make at best sure that your ravager has reached the priest prior to you coming in range to him. Be ready to use Bullheaded on the fear of the priest on your pet, they like to use it to prevent the interrupting pet stun and the ROS. Do your standard damage rotation on the priest while your ret is pushing on him. What will happen now is a stun on the hunter with a 5 second blanket silence by the priest on your ret. The stun will either happen directly by the SP in the form of psychic horror or by the rogue in the form of Cheap Shot. The priest will then instantly proceed to try to land VT on the hunter. While you should definitely use your pet stun to kick that first VT, question remains what the right move is. Your ret can either sit the Silence and simply use big sac once VT lands on you and the rogue starts dancing while ros of the hunter is active and thus avoid stuff like Gouge/Blind or he bubbles the silence instantly to hopefully be able to get Repentance/HOJ off on the VT casting SP to control him. The problem is that in bubble he barely deals any damage and can’t pop wings, making it a bit harder to kill the SP till the next fear after the ret used trinket on the first one. It also makes him open himself up for something like a DR Blind into Gouge after the sac ends which he will have to fully sit while the hunter is alone with two SP dots, the rogue and Shadowfiend. Hence, I prefer to have my paladin just sit the Silence, pop big sac, trinket the fear and go to town on the SP. You as the hunter can even trinket the first Cheap Shot if your ret is still in the Silence and then have him use freedom on the kidney. What else are they going to do? If they decide to let you go, take all dots off and try to reset by blinding the hunter, you still have BOP for that. They simply run out of efficient peels for your team fairly quickly. As soon as their first stun lock ends and your ret connects on the SP, you are on a timer till the next stuns and fears. The great thing about this strategy now is that you can actually kill the SP through Dispersion due to the Sanctified Wrath talent by the ret. Especially with a 2h and just a few GCDs on the SP, he will be able to kill him almost solo as long as you keep the rogue busy. And if the rogue does decide to go peel your ret, you can toss out a good amount of damage yourself on the SP. To reliably win this comp, you and your ret need to be on the same page on what is supposed to happen. You must not overlap something like freedom and trinket. Elsewise you will need to use BOP for a stun and then they can just fully blind the hunter often for 10 seconds which normally is a clear loss on your part. Also, I want to showcase once more that my approaches might not be the most suitable for everyone. I remember Capsizer and I also followed a strategy where we would just stand in a flare behind a pillar and waiting for them to come. Sap lands on the ret, Deterrence by the hunter to avoid Gouge and before the priest has even come close, the rogue already has so stun the hunter to not get instantly kited which can then be easily freedomed by the ret while the hunter just kites the enemy team for a while. But with the combat bug technique, it is probably best to just play it super aggressively. If you can, switch to a weapon with a lot of Resilience for this matchup.
Preg section: With a preg paladin you will mostly play with a crab pet and your ret paladin has a lot less striking force. Hence, I rather tend to follow the instant bubble approach. Just live through it with your paladin supporting you and sitting on the SP to generate procs. Going rogue is still really risky as it’s difficult to generate procs for your ret paladin due to Evasion and possibly clean Vanishes via COS. Certainly makes the matchup harder overall.

# Destro/Rsham: 7/10
A matchup which you should win as long as you play it very controlled. They will most likely play with a succubus pet. You can kill every target in this matchup, but the warlock’s pets are probably best. At the beginning of the match you can damage the warlock a little bit from max range. This way his pet gets popped out of stealth due to Soul Link. Pressure the pet a little bit but don’t overextend. Your ret can freedom you while he is seduced but you rather want to make the first move yourself. Wait till both of you are on the same page about who you want to CC. Either of you can CC the warlock or the shaman. Just make sure that there is no grounding anywhere to fuck your plan. Reassure yourself where the pet is and then try to land CC on both enemy players at the same time. A lot of experience comes into play when looking for the perfect moment to use Silencing Shot. Yet again, the decision making differs depending a bit on your ret. Does he have the Turn Evil glyph or not. If yes, he can just fear the pet during your setup, you just silence the lock fear on your ret and then u can just cc them easily. If he doesn’t have the glyph, and I recommend that he doesn’t as you generally rather struggle vs preg dk or hpal war teams where the glyph of sanctuary is better, it becomes harder to CC the pet. Yes, he still has Holy Wrath to CC it for 3 seconds but that is based on melee range. What to do till he reaches the point at which he would be able to use Holy Wrath on the pet? Depending on the movement of the warlock, I like to pre use Silencing Shot on the warlock while sending my pet at the succubus. This prevents any incoming Shadowfury (in best case pre silence it) which is always annoying to deal with and allows me to close the last few meters to throw out my CC on the enemy team. Try to stay spread and if you are able to connect just 3 GCDs on the enemy team without Health Tunnel active, you will surely kill the pet. Keep on pressuring them till fel dom is used and then get right back on the pet. It is also no shame to retreat as soon as you forced a trinket or Heroism off them, just make sure that your pet doesn’t die while doing so. Any double CC by them on your team is a CD by your team. Don’t wait till the warlock has someone in a fear, then applies Immolate and gets a Chaos Bolt + Conflagrate off, rather use trinkets and immunities early to stay in control, your ret can’t top himself or you when either of you are running around the pillar at 20% hp and the enemy team is all over you. This comp is going to be a joy if you like setup based matches where you legit pull out of the fight completely and just wait for your instant CC to come off CD. Generally speaking, you win with time. Every scatter trap on any enemy team member is soul crushing for them. As soon as both pets are dead, you win the game.
Preg section: With a preg it becomes a fair bit harder as you won’t have as much burst for the pet. Also, you will play with a Crab pet, hence lacking a possibly decisive kick on a cast. Try to follow the same approach but you have to be even more careful, often having to reset even longer periods of time. You will be able to do so due to the increased healing by the ret but it’s also strenuous for your concentration to always wait for Repentance to come off CD for example before making another push.

{% include youtube.html id="vvmhvtOBIoc" %}
{% include youtube.html id="SclgKPai3I0" %}
{% include youtube.html id="L-GqSnu7Wxg" %}

# Destro/Ele: 8/10
A little bit harder than its Destro/Rsham counterpart. The thing here is that it’s often not really worth to kill two pets and then the warlock, hence you will have to deal with either the ele or the warlock directly. That is a problem cause the ele is really hard to kill with Heroism up as the warlock will spam CC on your whole team, using his trinket early to peel the ele, possibly soloing one of you. Same as the Destro/Rsham matchup, control is everything. I prefer to kill the warlock with an early scatter trap on the ele while using my Deterrence to avoid peels. Fear the pet early if you can, elsewise just stun it while running at the warlock, using sac early on to prevent Seduce. Use your CDs early on, force them to use their DRs defensively on you while pushing on them. You must never let them cast on you without being at full HP and having either ROS or at least big sac up. Again, it’s nice to shoot the warlock from max range early on to pop his pet out of stealth, giving you more control. Stay spread to avoid double Shadow Fury and shut the warlock down as much as possible. The ele shaman is less dangerous than the warlock overall. What good teams often like to do is to set up on your ret paladin with a Seduce on the hunter. Shadowfury ret while seducing the hunter leads into freedom by the ret and then a coil into Fear. He could trinket that into CC on the warlock but it’s often harder to get due to the possibly high range, so the warlock will just trinket the Repentance and fear him prior to HOJ landing which will result in a bubble most likely due to Heroism. Have your ret use bubble fairly early on before he dips too low in the coil and then just dispel you to keep you offensive. You must stay offensive now. If they get to cast on your ret one more time, it’s over. If you haven’t forced trinkets by now, it’s often wise to just use Frost Trap at the warlock’s pillar to stay offensive. With the Turn Evil glyph this matchup is a walk in the park, without it you should really try to keep yourself out of double CC by all costs. You can also kill two pets which die even quicker than versus the Destro/Rsham combination but it often takes too much time and just semi good setup by them to ultimately kill your ret paladin. 
Preg section: With preg this becomes even harder. Try to play it super conservatively by letting the hunter do most of the work in the beginning. Since the ele shaman can’t heal as well as a rsham, you can slowly poke them to death possibly, forcing them to go open at some point. Going on the pet with a preg paladin is often not too bad of a strategy as you lack burst damage for a straight up warlock kill.

{% include youtube.html id="qp4MA1O3FXQ" %}

# Mirror: ??? 
Mirrors are disgusting. I hate mirrors. Let it be in 2s or 3s, doesn’t matter which comp, it’s just mehh, so I want to get it out of the way now. It’s quite a delicate matchup where you can often fall behind due to random crits or using your Deterrence and then seeing the ret not using his Judgement into it or the hunter not using his Aimed or Chimera Shot. Your main goal will most likely be the other ret paladin. Early HOJ/silence will secure a trinket as he cant freedom himself. Early scatter on the enemy hunter is most likely a trinket. Use ROS on your paladin early on to mitigate his damage taken and prevent the enemy ret from generating any crits. If they happen to go you, try to save ROS at first and have your ret paladin use his sacrifices for you instead, they have much greater value if at all any only if the enemy goes on partners of the ret paladin. Use your racial wisely. Let it be meld on a scatter or the first chimera or the dwarf racial on the first Serpent Sting prior to Chimera Shot landing. If you see ROS on the enemy ret, you can switch on the hunter to generate more procs and keep your pressure rolling. When the ret bubbles, you should surely switch on the hunter immediately. Try using your Deterrences smartly to avoid signature offensive abilities like Aimed Shot. You don’t want to find yourself in a situation where your ret uses BOP on you on 20% HP. Chimera Shot/Judgement/Hammer of Wrath still go through this and the hunter will just use all his stuff to keep your ret paladin from healing you, meaning he will have to use bubble as well. Mirrors are really hard to outline on what to do exactly and what approach you should follow. Sometimes it’s also nice to start on the hunter if you can land an early Repentance on the enemy ret while he doesn’t have sacrifice running yet, technically both sides have the same chances of winning but being just off by 0.5 seconds timing wise on some things might cost you the game if bad crit RNG comes on top of that.

# Preg/DK: 9/10
One of the few comps where preg paladin is possibly better than a pure 2h ret build. This comp does insane amounts of constant pressure. The DK gives 13% extra magic damage to the ret, his horn of winter scales beautifully with him as well while the DK gets a fat AP bonus. The weakness of this comp lies within its overall limited mobility. In contrast to something like Enhance/Preg where the paladin has a freedom for himself and the enhance is an unstoppable mobile force of nature during wolves, the DK has much less of that. Sure, he can deal some damage from afar but it’s depleted quickly and the Gargoyle AI is laughable. The idea here is that either the DK or the paladin will have troubles following your ret paladin once he gets away as they only possess one freedom, given that you slow both of them. While they will most likely try to kill your ret paladin, you will want to focus on surviving at first and then most likely kill the paladin yourself. Killing the DK sometimes works as well but you need to go through most of the paladin’s defensive arsenal on top of Frost Presence, AMS, AMZ and IBF by the DK. Try to offer yourself as a target in the beginning, if they happen to grip you, it’s good as you can just disengage it. Start poking away at them and try to slow both of them immediately once they start pushing and eventually grip your paladin into the middle. What I like to do is to send my pet in instantly, get in range of my ret paladin, use freedom on him once they reached him and throw a silence on the paladin with a HOJ by your ret into a scatter on the dk which he will trinket into pet stun and slows. If you are lucky and use ROS as well, your ret might be able to save his bubble for a few extra seconds. Proceed to kite them while hitting the enemy paladin. Once the bubble has been forced on either side, try to focus on surviving. Your ret paladin won’t have the time to pick you up later. Hitting the DK is nice to have but as long as the Gargoyle is shooting you, it won’t be worth it. The second part of the match is actually killing the enemy ret paladin while chasing him around the pillar and having the DK spam peels. This is where you have to get creative. Use Readiness freedom on your ret to allow him to reach and trinket chains to reach the enemy paladin one last time or actually now switch on the DK with CC on the paladin. Depending on the map, there is no clear cut strategy or advice that I can give you. Most matches you will lose even in the opener with a full 5 second Strangulate on your ret paladin who just gets annihilated before you can get any CC going, having to bubble super early. On the flipside, this could also be nice for your team as 30 seconds later you will have surely forced the enemy paladin’s bubble but he won’t be able to use wings yet while your ret paladin will. Or you will lose the game in the second half, unable to reach the paladin while your ret gets dropped low enough by the DK so the preg can eventually just run back in and kill him. If at all, I can just tell you to watch the example games closely to see what we did in the matches that we won. One last thought that I haven’t tried yet: Maybe it’s actually good to just kill the Gargoyle and trading bubble from your side for it. 

{% include youtube.html id="JBrpIqOHa3Y" %}
{% include youtube.html id="1nEmrcm5qXY" %}

# Preg/Enhance: 8/10
Not as difficult as Preg/DK, but nonetheless nasty to face. As laid out in the Preg/DK section of this guide, this comp is harder to stop but also does less pressure in the long run. Its cleave is much weaker as well, so you as a hunter have to worry less about the other DPS’ pressure on you. They too will most likely try to kill your ret paladin. In contrast to Preg/DK, there is not much kiting to be done here. You will want to go on the paladin as well. An early scatter trap on the paladin with a Repentance on the shaman after they popped wolves is a great way to force them trinkets or possibly score a quick kill on the wolves. Even if you just force the shaman’s trinket, it’s still great as a scatter later in the game might secure your paladin a few undisturbed Flash of Light casts. Try pressuring the enemy paladin as much as possible without using Readiness. Help your paladin to kite but have no illusion, they will most likely be able to brute force his bubble in the opening. He should try to get as much distance as possible now. He will be able to survive the enhance shaman for a while solo but try to make it as hard as possible for the enemy paladin to reach him. Try saving your trinket for Hex and utilise Frost Trap on the enemies if your paladin kites at a pillar. You survive, you win. It’s often nice to save your ROS till after your ret paladin’s bubble as a last line of defence where the enemy ret paladin might get greedy and go offensive while being unable to generate any crits due to ROS. 

{% include youtube.html id="AB8FHgfjMXI" %}

# Spriest/Mage: 7/10
Can be a nasty comp to face but you should for the most part win it rather easily. Same concise approach as disc hunt vs this comp: stay in control. Frost Mages are scary when they have their water elemental out and icy veins activated. Especially in earlier seasons you can even run them slowly OOM. Your paladin will take the role of your disc priest for the first section of the game by just chilling in the back and keeping you buffed/clean. Make sure you avoid as many VT as possible while pressuring either of them. There is no go to target that you always want to kill. Make sure to react adequately when they pop their major CDs in the form of Shadowfiend, Psychic Horror, Icy Veins and Mirror Images (bubble by the ret paladin for example to counter their pressure on the hunter). The hunter alone can kill them if you have enough uptime on them. A typical opener would be them pushing on your team, you slowing at best both of them, throwing out an early scatter, possibly into trap. Save your silence for mostly poly casts of the mage on your pala, same goes for your ravager stun. Go back and reset once you forced block on the mage and you can’t CC the priest any longer. Going priest also works but you have to make sure to play almost flawlessly cause your paladin will now almost guaranteed eat a fear which he will have to trinket. In general fears are extremely dangerous for your team as the mage will either get a poly off that or a Deep Freeze on you which would result in an instant trinket from your paladin or at least you. The good thing about going on the priest is that your paladin can use wings to kill him through Dispersion. The safer strategy is to go on the mage though, force block quickly and then spam CC on the priest so he can’t top his mage back to full easily, then finishing the mage off with a freedom on your ret. The problem is the fear from the priest and a disarm + Deep Freeze/silence on your ret, making it hard for him to connect.

# Disc/Hunter: 8.5/10
A good Disc Hunter is often really difficult to beat. As a 2h ret you can kill hunter and priest although hunter is often the easier target as you shut their pressure down significantly by just going on him. It is also a bit easier to focus on how and when the hunter is going to do damage if you go on him than going on the priest. If you want to kill the priest, you will have to do it quickly as the hunter will destroy you rapidly cause you don’t have much CC for him outside of Scatter Shot. At best track his CDs to outplay his Aimed and Chimera Shot somehow (Feign Death, Deterrence, Meld, Readiness) while running down the priest, have your ret trinket the first fear and run sacrifices to deny incoming Scatter Shots. If you pull this kind of opener off, he can also wings early into the game and hope that the priest won’t dispel his wings too quickly. Only with wings and proper interrupts on Penance while avoiding most of their damage will you be able to kill the priest through PS, trinket, possible racials and especially ROS. This is not like against disc feral where you can relatively easily shut down the feral, it’s harder to kill the priest now and you have to pay equal attention to what the hunter is doing as you are with the feral. Going hunter is a bit slower gameplay wise. Just like against disc/mage, the classic HOJ into trap combination is very effective, use sacrifices early on and cycle through your defensive CDs while running down the hunter. You will have lost the game once you have to go back. Try to anticipate the enemy hunter using his CDs to outplay your Aimed and Chimera Shot and force to priest to never stop spam healing, unable to go offensive himself. Using wings early here is often not a good idea. Once the ret has to sit a full CC the game is 100% over. 
With a preg paladin you will want to go for the hunter for sure, going for the priest isn’t really an option.

{% include youtube.html id="BcaL3GYFXgA" %}

# Disc/Mage: 6/10
A comp I adore facing as most hunter comps as you can live out your deepest desires of playing a range warrior. Similarly to shatter, you have to be wary of incoming fears on your paladin the most. Try to land constant CC chains on the priest via HOJ into trap, hence slowly forcing CD after CD. The only time you will really ever be in trouble is if they either get aggressive on you with fiend + priest dots or simply from landing double CC on you where you don’t have any outs. Any fear of the priest will result in a poly on your ret in most situations, ergo yet again focus on avoiding as many fears as possible. You can even use freedom on your ret so he can get away from the priest easier. Reset after forcing an Ice Block and wait for your next opportunity to strike. Just going in and sitting on the mage will often not work as the mage often stacks with his priest so your ret will eat constant fears by them. 

{% include youtube.html id="BD_5EvA8Xmg" %}
{% include youtube.html id="MY--DISlrIY" %}
{% include youtube.html id="wgJ52etht_Y" %}

# Hpal/Lock: 8.5/10
Not often that you meet this comp but it can be hard at times to face it as they have double dispel on their team in the form of the felhunter and the paladin. What works for us is to have them exhaust their GCDs and dispel CD of the pet as the dispel of the pet has an 8 sec CD. As you will see in the example game(s), the strategy evolves around using the pillar as much as possible, avoiding unnecessary CC and damage, going in when we have loads of instant CC, then using it on warlock and paladin while connecting together on the pet. Overall it’s best for you if it’s a succubus pet. The worst combination is an affliction warlock with a felhunter. You can almost endlessly pillar kite against this comp by using your short interrupts on the lock’s casts. A typical setup could for example look like scatter trap on the warlock while using Repentance and HOJ on the paladin. This will always lead to a dead pet or a trinket by them. 

{% include youtube.html id="v7sYyKooXhw" %}

# Hpal/Ele: 8/10
A comp feared by many but it’s actually not the worst to face. Similar to war pala, it’s all about doing setups on the paladin with CC on the ele shaman. The good thing is that if you play it well, you can avoid most of the pressure of the ele shaman and then just run at the paladin with incoming CC. The ele doesn’t have stuns or Disarm or CC immunities like a warrior, also it’s easier to negate his damage. The only danger lies within them killing your pet, you need it to quickly kill groundings via Growl and to simply negate some incoming Lava Burst damage with ROS or killing other totems. When ever you forced a CD, you can retreat and wait for your CC CDs again. Make sure to kill Earthbind Totems when ever you see them, making it easier for your paladin to keep your team clean and moving. Also make sure that the Cleansing Totem is down when going for a go on the hpal. Trading big sac/bubble for lust is a fair trade in the beginning. 

{% include youtube.html id="xLF6y2gUkxg" %}

# Disc/Ret: 9/10
Overall a clear counter. The problem is the double dispel by the enemy team, making it hard to land proper CC chains. What doesn’t make it easier is the fact that the paladin can use freedom to free himself or his priest out of HOJ. Your ret pala will not be able to go toe to toe with the enemy team for long. They often stack on top of each other, so if u come close to the priest your pala will eat a fear and the priest will basically solo you from range slowly with dots. Your pala has a hard time getting judgements off on targets without shield, hence ooming. Only way to win this is with clean double CC and immaculate kiting. The one weakness they have is the lack of a range kick and their lack of slows and mobility. You can kite the paladin relatively easily as his priest can’t slow you down as much as a shaman could with Ghost Wolf, Frost Shock and Earthbind Totem. Scatter allows you to set up double CC chains relatively safely, just make sure that no one of the enemy team can easily run off behind a pillar when needed to avoid your incoming CC. It can also be something simple as a silence on the ret (they in contrast don’t have any passive silence duration reduction like hpals) while using HOJ on the priest. Off the silence you can stun the ret, he can’t freedom his priest while he is in a stun himself, making it a bit easier to chain CC on the priest. Main target is the priest but you can theoretically also kill the ret paladin if you catch him with a 2h in a stun while throwing CC on the priest and silencing the pala so he can’t freedom himself.

# Prot/Rsham: 8.5/10
Difficult comp to beat, almost as hard as disc/ret. The bad part here is that the paladin does more average damage than the ret, so you have to focus even more on kiting and avoiding damage. What is also bad is that the shaman can be a fair bit nastier with his slows and interrupts than the priest. Also, Earthshield + Sacred Shield is a monstrous bulwark that is hard to pierce through. What is also bad is that the prot paladin has a potent slow for your paladin in the form of Avenger’s Shield as it silences him as well, so he cant just dispel it; try to save your own freedom for when that happens to your ret. The good part is that the shaman can’t dispel the paladin, nor does he have an instant aoe fear like the priest does, making it a lot easier for your team to build up pressure on him. That means that the shaman will most likely be dead if you are able to connect on him while the paladin has no way out of a CC. Since the paladin can’t free someone from stuns with his freedom, he can’t free his shaman from a HOJ while he sits in a full trap. Try to align scatter trap on the pala with HOJ on the shaman to avoid grounding. Even if the shaman grounds the HOJ, it’s fine as you don’t really need CC on him to kill him. He won’t just stand there and cast heals in your face as you will still have silence and ravage stun for him. If you don’t fuck up and consistently land your CC on him, the shaman should die in 3 consecutive setups.

{% include youtube.html id="4cAdws8Qf_4" %}

# Disc/Feral: 7/10
Certainly a comp that can be challenging yet something you will be able to beat with proper coordination, some RNG, decently quick reactions and enough damage. Especially in earlier seasons of wrath you will have to run down the priest. Meaning, gates open and you rush him down instantly to deny him a double shield in the start. Flare close to the priest’s pillar, have your ret HOJ him without getting feared and throw your instant CC on the feral. Do not be tempted to use wings early on as your ret will have to trinket the fear and it’s really hard for your team to prevent the druid’s Cyclones on him. The key to victory aka continuous uptime of your team lies within bubbling the fear of the priest so your ret has trinket for the incoming clone. Focus on interrupting every penance possible, ROS w/e the feral is hitting and make it as hard as possible for him to connect. Use your freedom for the target the feral is on, have your ret use freedom on stuns. If you can’t LOS the clones, you can also spam your interrupts on the feral but you should really focus on keeping the priest in CC aka slows and interrupt his Penances, maximising the uptime especially of your ret on him.
{% include youtube.html id="m_DSJhvs-3M" %}

# Mage/Rogue: 6.5/10
Nothing you should be too worried about as long as you don’t overlap CDs. Try to get Hunter’s Mark on the mage prior to Invisibility. Have your ret use big sac for their big go with pets and dance. Freedom stuns, trinket other stuns and at best keep your flare for when they go for the reset. The rogue should have to use COS to Vanish safely, if you then use your CDs to Flare him out instantly, you will have basically won the game right there if you just chase him, dot him again and kill him before next stun DR. Key here is to react properly, especially in the beginning. It might often even be a good thing to have your pala just bubble in the beginning to support you. Try not to be out of LOS from your pala when they open on you, the hunter, so he can instantly freedom the Cheap Shot. You can then start throwing out CC on them to slow down their opener. You can also kill mages but since rogues don’t have any shields to protect them in stealth when they have dots on themselves, it is overall easier to just aim to kill the rogue. 

{% include youtube.html id="wk-hM8aX2us" %}
{% include youtube.html id="KY5TtZeef_4" %}
{% include youtube.html id="xJNNEGP6yyk" %}
{% include youtube.html id="KTP5prO_hjo" %}
